<pre>
  NPIP: 3
  Layer: Consensus (soft fork)
  Title: Community Fund Acummulation Chain Size reduction
  Author: alex v <alex@nav.community>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/navcoin/npips/wiki/Comments:NPIP-0003
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-08-11
</pre>

==Abstract==

This NPIP describes a technique to concentrate the accumulation of coins on the Community Fund using fewer transaction outputs.

==Motivation==

To decrease the size of the blockchain.

==Specification==

A new consensus parameter ''nBlockSpreadCFundAccumulation'' is set for each of the networks. ''nCommunityFundAmount'' represents the contribution per block to the Community Fund.

Staking nodes will include an output with the block's contribution to the Community Fund only when the height of the block to be staked is a multiple of ''nBlockSpreadCFundAccumulation''.

Validating nodes will check that only blocks whose height is a multiple of ''nBlockSpreadCFundAccumulation'' include a contribution to the Community Fund and that the contribution's value is equal to ''nCommunityFundAmount'' * ''nBlockSpreadCFundAccumulation''.

==Rationale==

With the current implementation, each block's coinstake transaction includes an extra output representing the block's contribution to the Community Fund.

The size of this output is 11 bytes. At a rate of 1 Block per 30 Sec, 1051200 blocks are created per annum, meaning 11,563MB are unnecesarily added every year to the blockchain.

{| class="wikitable"
!|nBlockSpreadCFundAccumulation value
!|Coins accumulated
!|Every
!|MB added per year
!|Blockchain Size Reduction
|-
|1
|0.25NAV
|30sec
|11,563MB
|0%
|-
|10
|2.5NAV
|5min
|1,156MB
|90%
|-
|100
|25NAV
|50min
|0,11563MB
|99%
|-
|250
|62.5NAV
|2h 5min
|0,004625MB
|99.96%
|-
|500
|125NAV
|4h 10min
|0,0023125MB
|99.98%
|}

The reference implementation proposes a value of 500 blocks for ''nBlockSpreadCFundAccumulation''.

==Backwards Compatibility==

This change is proposed as a Soft Fork, breaking compatibility with older versions of the client once network signals readiness.

The activation of the new consensus rules would be triggered after a minimum amount of staking weight signals the readiness:

* Through the version bit 14
* With a start time of May 1st, 2018
* With an end time of May 1st, 2019

==Reference Implementation==

https://github.com/aguycalled/navcoin-core/tree/cfund-spread-accumulation
